We'll start.
Yes, for the team.
Identify yourself.
Okay, I'm Charles Paul.
I'm the director of the Bancroft Library.
And we're talking here at the Book Fair in San Francisco on September 8, 1996.
And we're talking about the future of libraries.
And I was just saying that at Bancroft, we shouldn't be collecting printed books.
We should be collecting unique archival materials, materials which by definition only exist in one format.
That's actually not so controversial, really.
So you explained it better.
It's a printed book.
Increasingly what's going to happen... But you're talking specifically about the Bancroft Library too, which is very clear.
You're not talking about the university library system by any way.
Well, I think that increasingly that's going to happen with universities because as material becomes digital, it doesn't matter where the physical copy is located because you can get access to it anywhere.
So if there are a thousand copies of a book, what difference does it make whether we have one, or it's at Stanford, or at the Houghton Library?
Once that book has been digitized and made available, then anybody can have access to it.
So we're talking unique items, of course, we would continue to... But we're interested, for example, we have the Mark Twain project.
So instead of looking for every edition of Mark Twain's works that have been published forever, we should be focusing on getting the manuscripts, the originals.
Because if they're lost...
They're gone forever.
How do you feel then about the next step then?
How about printed books that you already have, given an opportunity to digitize what you have?
Would you do that and then take steps to deaccession the printed books?
No, we'll never get rid of them because the book has an actual value that can be very useful for scholarship.
And the problem, of course, is that you never know what...
100 years down the line, someone who's going to be interested in.
But it's a question of where do you have a finite amount of resources.
So do you collect the stuff that everybody else has got, or do you focus on the things that only you can have?
So, just because the Bancroft Library should not be collecting printed books, you do feel that somebody should be?
Somebody should, absolutely.
I mean, our field is basically Western history.
You're talking strictly about, I mean, let's be clear that you're talking about your facility, your institution.
And so, we should be focusing, I think, on collecting materials.
I mean, Hubert Howe Bancroft was the founder of the library since then.
As I have heard.
As you well know.
As I have chronicled.
Thank you.
I love this book.
Almost by definition, there were no antiquary materials about California in the 19th century.
He collected the contemporary materials, because he knew that they were going to be useful not only for his own history, but in the future.
We should be collecting contemporary materials about California.
to make them available.
Such as, can you give me this?
Records of fraternal organizations, businesses, charitable organizations.
We have, I think, the classic is we have the Sierra Club.
So not necessarily literary things by any means.
We do California authors, but we have the Sierra Club audience.
I think that's absolutely wonderful.
I mean, what I would like to see is
also getting the business, especially the Chevron, and trying to look at their point of view about the environmental controversies of the past 30 or 40 years, so that, in fact, people can write about the environmental movement with material from both sides.
That's super.
This is great stuff.
So it isn't a question of, you know, the printed book is going to go away.
It's not going to go away.
Not in my lifetime, not in your lifetime, and not for a long, long time.
But it is, as a source of information, it is going to be replaced by the computer.
And I think that's the general feeling.
For literary works, I think for the foreseeable future, they're going to be in book form.
For scholarship, you want to make information available, and we would love to have
all of our stuff online, so people did not actually have to physically come into the Bancroft Library and use it.
What does it cost you to digitize a page, you know?
You quoted a picture yesterday.
I had a figure of $40.
No, it's not there.
I think $5 would be over-go.
Where did I hear the $40?
Paul LeClaire said $40.
Maybe he was overstating.
Maybe the union's fees are more expensive.
Check with the Yale Open Book Project.
Maybe it was $5.
I said $40.
It's probably somewhere.
It depends on what you're counting.
I'm thinking that maybe it's five.
No, it depends on what you're counting.
I think he's also talking in terms of the money you have to pay for the person that's handling it, and whatever, and time.
I'm going to check it, and I'll let you know if it's 40.
Do you remember the project of the Archive of the Indies in Seville?
No.
They have the largest collection of material on the history of colonial South America.
And this is where?
This is in Seville.
In Spain.
Yeah.
I'm going there for this new book.
Okay.
For my first chapter, it's going to be a survey of libraries through history.
You missed Fernando Colón.
Okay.
Columbus's son.
He's the one that founded Seville.
He founded the Columbine.
I didn't miss him.
I'm getting him in this book.
Okay, all right.
That's why I'm going to Seville.
Did I mention that before you go?
Before you go, you should talk to my colleague, Arthur Askins, in the Spanish department at Berkeley, who has been working on
This is such a good day.
See, this is going to be a good day.
I'm getting it.
Winner is every one.
Go ahead.
Is that all his name for me, please?
A-S-K-I-N-S.
Okay.
He is an American professor in the Spanish department, a very lively American professor.
So he maintains an office then?
He maintains an office, and he is one of the two or three leading experts on
Fernando Colon and his library.
See, I have to come back out here now.
This is on a trip to the... Now it's becoming serious.
What I'll do is set up this gentleman up in the Sacramento area and see you call the... And the Columbine Library, it's been dispersed.
But it was the largest library in 16th century Europe.
It was larger.
It was a much more important... Why was it dispersed?
Yes, it was sold by the actual librarians who didn't realize the treasure they had.
See the cautionary tales, don't they?
It had, I think, originally something like 16,000 items, and now there are about 4,000 items.
He also could probably tell me who to see when I go over there.
He could probably even give me an introduction to somebody.
Oh, yeah, this opening chapter is going to be wonderful.
I'm going to start in Pergamum, you know, and just come from places where I can go and visit and explain the significance through history.
You know, say, Gaul, and I want to go to this one in Seville, and come right up to this brand-new Bibliotheque National.
It's up in Paris.
That's the continuum, one chapter, and then the two chapters, the future.
But the Archive of the Indies is...
It's right next to the cathedral.
I mean, you can, you know, 100 yards between them.
And they have something like 90 million documents.
And it is the whole history.
I mean, from Columbus all the way up to the Spanish-American War.
And they have started to, you know, for the 1992 business, whether you want to call it Discovery of America or the Encounter of the World or whatever it is, they got the Spanish government... The Discovery in quotes, Joe, isn't it?
The Discovery in quotes, yeah.
They got the Spanish government, IBM, and the largest private foundation in Spain to finance a project to digitize the most important part of the collection.
They have done...
something like 10 million documents digitized.
And now they are available on, only they're on warm drives and they're going to transfer them into regular CD-ROMs.
But they're only still only available in Seville.
And what we're trying to do is set up some sort of relationship so that we can get a section of this material available at Berkeley and put it online.
and they're interested in finding out, you know, is there a object for it?
You're in this new book, you know.
You're in this new book right now.
Great, great.
This is our sharing stuff.
But this is, no, but I mean, I think this is what we see the future for rare book libraries.
What is it that, what is the stuff that we have that people want to use with people coming in, you know, looking at the same stuff over and over again?
Let's digitize it, make it available on the internet so that people can see it
and answer everything.
Some people actually need to look at the physical thing.
Who can argue with that?
Lots and lots of people, all they need to do is look at the text.
That's what we want to try and do.
The stuff that's most fragile and most heavily used, start to put it up on the internet.
Can you think of some really precious object that is being worn to death?
Do you think you can be specific about that?
And be correct, and I'll call you, that really it behooves you to digitize for its own good.
You see what I'm saying?
You don't have to do this off the top of your head either.
The thing that actually comes to mind is not a precious object.
They are the Japanese-American War Relocation Papers.
We have probably the most complete budget in the country, because part of the National Archives, part is in UCLA, and part is here.
of the other parts.
Some of the stuff that was in the National Archives was actually burned, so we have copies.
What file was that?
What happened?
Some of the Japanese-American relocation papers burned in the National Archives.
Are the copies that were there?
We distribute it into the processing, and when the decision was made to provide funds, when the decision was made to provide money to people who were incarcerated, they needed to have information about their personal histories, and that particular information could disperse somehow in the archives.
I don't know about that.
But our set was intact in its original form.
These are very heavily used as teaching tools.
This also feeds in a way to the Sarajevo story that I'm doing.
I'm going to do this.
Too bad some of this stuff wasn't someplace else.
You know, the unique stuff, the archival stuff, the manuscript.
And this project that's being run out of Harvard now, and Russ Middelmeyer, who's trying to help this, you know, they might have been able to find three manuscripts, you know, a lot more.
But they consider this a great, I mean, they've only been able to replicate three from microfiche and stuff that some scholar 20 years ago would have done.
Right, exactly.
But you see how this is all going to work together?
It's going to be a hell of a chapter, don't you think?
I think it's going to be good stuff.
You know, a lot of this stuff in the Japanese is, you know, it's this World War II very flimsy Indian skin paper.
I mean, you look at it and it falls apart.
That's a perfect example.
You see, it doesn't have to be something that's 300 or 400 years old.
It can be something that's 50 years old.
Well, that was a case where different sets of records were made.
One set for the University of California, and one set for the East Coast for the National Archives.
Interestingly, in the Spanish imperial period, when business was being transacted, court cases were being transacted in Mexico, all through New Spain,
multiple sets of those were also made in manuscripts.
So one set was kept at the National Archives in Mexico, or at least ended up there.
Another set was sent back to Seville, and sometimes there were additional sets for various missions and various offices to help them have administrative control.
So there's another case where if one record is lost one place, there may at least be another manuscript copy of that record at another place in Bangkok.
There's still another place where you can go because we would like to call them both at the National Archives.
Similarly, think of all the Army records that were destroyed in that fire out in St.
Louis.
I found this in trying to learn about Haven no more.
All that stuff was reconstructed.
It was two or three little pieces of paper.
Had this stuff been sent place else, duplicate records... Of course, it was...
Traditionally, the way to do this is doing my microfilm.
And it's still probably the cheapest and most efficient.
But it still does mean that you've got to go to the place where that microfilm is kept.
And people are now beginning to look into digitization as a preservation medium.
But it's more than that because it's also access.
Because once it's been digitized, then you can put it up on the Internet and you can make it.
Great stuff.
I'm going to wonder.
I think we've got an interview here.
This turned out to be.
Just quickly identify yourself.
Peter Stern?
I've got athletic fingers.
I don't remember his name, but I think if you call John P. Library, they'll be able to help you out.
I could look it up.
If I could look up his name, I have the appraisal on that file.
I did the appraisal file.
Just for the record of the tape.
Give me your card here.
I like this whole concept of the compulsive.
There was no discretion.
You've got everything you'd get.
If the circus wasn't on, if there were singers, if there were plays, it didn't matter.
Whatever came in entertainment-related,
I think they told me, if I'm not mistaken, his uncle was a booking agent.
And I think his uncle is the one who suggested that maybe he would enjoy doing that as a youngster.
As a youngster.
Probably young.
And he had probably some kind of a mundane job at the Fox department.
But I doubt if he ever, ever,
But I doubt if he did.
He once in a while bought some books that might have gone with a TV series.
Those he probably bought.
There must have been a hundred boxes.
So was he self-sufficient to a living family?
I think he lived with a family.
They took care of him.
And where did he keep going?
In his house, some place.
And so then what happened?
The family gave it to Brown?
No, I thought he gave it.
As an archive, do you think he understood?
I think he understood.
I never met him, though, so I don't know.
There was an article in the paper down there which they would have a copy of.
Okay.
And I think it's pretty remarkable.
And you came in about what point?
Oh, well, so Peter, who came in about what point?
Just to do the phrasing.
When was this?
About a year ago.
See, I didn't hear anything about this.
I told Persella about it.
I told Persella.
I said, you know, this would be a great thing.
It would be a great thing for him.
I thought it would be, or, you know, some kind of thing.
I thought he was working on a new book a year ago.
I decided.
But I am going to have a chapter for people.
But again, you never know how things are going to be used.
So Brown got this.
Well, when did you go to her?
I don't remember.
He didn't have any of probably $35,000 or $50,000.
There was no one thing that really would have listened to.
Yeah, there was no one thing that was tremendous and valuable.
But it's actually pretty precious.
On nice condition?
He might actually be very interested in the interview right now.
Oh, I think it would make peace.